---
title: "The hidden truth"
date:   2016-03-06
description: The hidden scientific truth
---

The cold war is *officially* over 25 years ago. It was a war that impacted the balance of power in the world, military, technical, economic and scientific. From a pure pragmatic point of view, this war was a success from a discovery point of view. It gave us internet, boosted the space exploration among many other key technologies we live with today.

However, the *dirty* side of the war extended beyond diplomacy, military and propaganda to impact the ethics of many scientists in a similar manner to what the British-French rivalry used to be. But this didn't end with the war.

Today, I was surprised to see on [https://unlockinglifescode.org](https://unlockinglifescode.org), that the great contribuition to genetics and life sciences of  Nikolaj Koltsov. Koltsov hypothysed that inherited traits are passed from a generation to the next through a "giant hereditary molecule" made up of "two mirror strands that would replicate in a semi-conservative fashion using each strand as a template" [1-3], his initial work was presented in a his speech at the 3rd All-Union Meeting of Zoologist, Anatomists, and Histologists at Leningrad, U.S.S.R. back in December 12, 1927.

Also in 1934, Koltsov contended that the proteins that contain a cell's genetic information replicate.

> "I think that the size of the chromosomes in the salivary glands [of Drosophila] is determined through the multiplication of genonemes. By this term I designate the axial thread of the chromosome, in which the geneticists locate the linear combination of genes; … In the normal chromosome there is usually only one genoneme; before cell-division this genoneme has become divided into two strands." [4] From page 313.


 The [Unlocking Lifes Code](https://unlockinglifescode.org) is a joint effort of the U.S. National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) and the Smithsonian National Museum of National History.

 This phenomenon was also observed in all the media cover that the 340 days mission that the NASA astraunote Scott Kelly got. Sometimes the media totally ignored the fact that this was a joint American-Russian mission, and that the russian astraunote Mikhail Kornienko spent 340 days in space as well. More importantly, this is the second time that a russian spent 1 year in space, since between 1987 and 1995, four russian cosmonauts spent a year or more in space.

*****
1. Н. К. Кольцов, "Физико-химические основы морфологии" (The physical-chemical basis of morphology) -- speech given at the 3rd All-Union Meeting of Zoologist, Anatomists, and Histologists at Leningrad, U.S.S.R., December 12, 1927.

2. Н. К. Кольцов, "Физико-химические основы морфологии" (The physical-chemical basis of morphology). Reprinted in: Успехи экспериментальной биологии (Advances in Experimental Biology), series B, 7 (1) :  ?-? (1928).

3. Nikolaj K. Koltzoff (1928) "Physikalisch-chemische Grundlagen der Morphologie" (The physical-chemical basis of morphology), Biologisches Zentralblatt, 48 (6) : 345-369.

4. N. K. Koltzoff (October 5, 1934) "The structure of the chromosomes in the salivary glands of Drosophila," Science, 80 (2075) : 312-313.
